---
version: beta-2024-12
released: 2024-12-28T19:02:40Z
summary: Quite a big release
supported: true
num: 12
---

#### Changes

- Blueprint now automatically deletes `.gitkeep` from the extension development folder after any developer command has been ran.
- Add `extensions()`, `dbGetMany()`, `dbSetMany()`, `dbForgetMany()` to [BlueprintExtensionLibrary](/docs/lib/methods).
- `fileRead($path)` and `fileWipe($path)` now use PHP functions instead of shell commands.
- **License holder name has been updated** from "Ivy (prpl.wtf)" to "Emma (prpl.wtf)".
- Move extension admin page website icon detection to case statement in `-install`.
- [`Console.yml`](/docs/configs/consoleyml) intervals are now detected through case statements, instead of if statements.
- Blueprint badge asset has changed size to a higher quality version.
- Update `FUNDING.yml` and add additional issue templates.
- Undocumented [`Components.yml`](/docs/configs/componentsyml) "permission" value has been added to debug logs.
- `-info` values are now dimmed in supported terminal emulators.
- `dbGet($table, $record)` now has an optional argument `$default` which will be returned if the database record is empty.
- Migrations are now forced on extension installs. This change makes the `developerForceMigrate` [flag](/docs/concepts/flags) obsolete.
- Add `engine` [placeholder](/docs/concepts/placeholders).
- Broadcast `queue:restart` command on extension transaction.
- Deprecated flags now provide warnings on extension transactions.
- Add private version of ExtensionFS (`blueprint_private:<identifier>`) that is symlinked to the extension's private directory.
- [`Components.yml`](/docs/configs/componentsyml) has a new "Global" scope within "Dashboard".
- Install, remove and export scripts now have access to the `$ENGINE` environment variable.
- Add [`update.sh`](/docs/concepts/scripts) script which will be ran upon an extension update transaction.
- Complete rewrite of Blueprint telemetry.
- Add a Code of Conduct (CoC) and Security policy to Blueprint.
- Removed `configutility.sh` in favor of the new telemetry rewrite and `bp:developer` artisan command.
- Removed database migrations and replaced them with a database seeder.
- Overall improvements to the extensions page.
- No longer use CLI commands to place and remove extension buttons on/from the extensions page, instead, we're using the newly released `extensions()` API.
- Version checking has been sped up and will now cache the latest release name in the background, once a day.
- Add a progress bar to `-upgrade`, `-rerun-install`, `-install` and `-remove`.
- New error notice on unfinished Blueprint installs.
- Add Blueprint to the Pterodactyl copyright notice, with an optional flag to disable it.
- Add `show_in_sidebar` flag to optionally add the "Extensions" button to the admin panel's sidebar.
- Add new `-query` command to get information about an extension without installing it.
- Add new `bp:telemetry` artisan command to see what data is sent to Blueprint's telemetry API.
- Add support for `.blueprintrc` which can be used to override variables like `$FOLDER` and persists on updates.

#### Bugfixes

- Some parts of Blueprint's React modifications caused errors with Prettier in certain cases.
- Use `printf` instead of `echo` to write to `installed_extensions` as a way to prevent new lines from generating.
- Removing the first installed extension causes a Laravel routing error.
- ExtensionFS was not unlinked in the public directory.
- Allow single quotes in extension name and description ([#69](https://github.com/BlueprintFramework/framework/pull/69)).
- `grabenv.sh` was causing ~0.4s delays when running any Blueprint CLI command.
- Bash tab suggestions would break on `-install` when there were no extension files available.

#### Breaking changes

- [`conf.yml`](/docs/configs/confyml) `requests_controllers` has been deprecated and will alias to `requests_app`. This does not change implementation and can be resolved by renaming the configuration option.
- [BlueprintExtensionLibrary](/docs/lib/methods)'s `dbGet($table, $record)` method now returns `null` when a value is empty, instead of returning an empty string.
- [BlueprintExtensionLibrary](/docs/lib/methods)'s **legacy variation** is being phased out. All `notify` and `file` methods now return false. This does not impact admin, client and console variations.
- Resolved docs/implementation mismatch causing `requests_routers` to default to `application` instead of `web`. Backwards compatibility is not provided with this change.
- Extension [flags](/docs/concepts/flags) `hasInstallScript`, `hasRemoveScript` and `hasExportScript` have now been deprecated. Scripts now run by default and no longer require a flag.
- [BlueprintExtensionLibrary](/docs/lib/methods)'s `notifyNow()` and `notifyAfter()` have been deprecated.
- [`export.sh`](/docs/concepts/scripts)'s `$BLUEPRINT_EXPORT_DIRECTORY` environment variable has been deprecated in favor of `$BLUEPRINT_TMP`.
- `dbSet()` with a number will now also return numbers on `dbGet()` whereas before it always returned strings.
- Blueprint's admin page has been removed and replaced with a modal on the extensions page. Developer and telemetry settings do not migrate over during upgrade.
