---
version: beta-2025-09
released: 09/30/2025 16:06 (GMT+2)
summary: More stable. Still beta though
num: 13
---

#### Changes

- Improved asset rebuilding speeds through caching (2-4x faster).
- Implement `-watch`, an experimental new tool that rebuilds extensions on every file change and sets up `yarn watch` where needed.
- Add component path aliases for Blueprint. (`@blueprint`)
- Add a few components to our WORK IN PROGRESS `@blueprint/ui` UI library. It's not meant for actual use yet, and you shouldn't do so, things WILL break.
- Admin-only component routes will now be highlighted with an "ADMIN" badge in the navigation bar.
- Component imports are now type-safe. Blueprint now exposes Pterodactyl's types to developers in a `.dist/types` directory.
- Implement new `-dist` command to initialize/update the development `.dist` directory.
- `-export` now always excludes the following files and directories from being included in the final extension package: `.git/`, `.dist/`, `.gitkeep`.
- Slight adjustments to the `-init` command, it also generates type definitions upon extension creation now.
- New Blueprint stickers!! 2025 edition stickers are now in the `.blueprint/assets` directory :)
- Add new `{fs}` placeholder.
- Made a few minor changes to the `blueprint` command alias.
- Add new methods (such as Alert) to BlueprintExtensionLibrary.

#### Bugfixes

- **Removing extensions that utilize components now works properly again!!**
- Developer mode flag value was sent twice in the same telemetry request.
- `ISO-8859-6` system encoding caused issues with extensions utilizing [Components.yml](/docs/configs/componentsyml)'s navigation routes and [Console.yml](/docs/configs/consoleyml)'s artisan commands.
- `-query` did not exit when using it on an unknown extension.
- Extension filesystems were introduced long ago.. but never worked. That's now fixed, whoops. ([#161](https://github.com/BlueprintFramework/framework/issues/161))

#### Breaking changes

- Since `beta-2024-12`, Blueprint stores environment-related variables in a `.blueprintrc` file. This version officially deprecates storing said variables inside of the `blueprint.sh` file and will attempt automatic migration to a `.blueprintrc` file.
- For a while now, Blueprint has imported both Bootstrap Icons and Boxicons, making the admin panel slower. Boxicons has now been removed.
- File operation methods on BlueprintExtensionLibrary have been deprecated, use Laravel Filesystems instead.
